---
layout: page
published: true
permalink: about
title: Untitled
---


Broken Water formed in august 2008. Jon and Kanako, formerly of olympia's SISTERS play guitar and drums respectively. Abigail played bass.  Abigail retired from the band for the last release to pursue her education.  Max Gorbman wrote and performs on the Wrought album. 

A bio written by Sara Nelson (2012)
In the center of downtown Olympia, Washington, in the middle of a parking lot, is an artesian well that spews fresh, ready-to-drink water from a metal pipe at the rate of ten gallons per minute. It’s often said that those among us who drink from the well will always inevitably return. The beer once brewed in Olympia even has “It’s the water!” written on the can. This is considered a form of proof, the way the pyramid on the dollar bill is considered a form of proof. Olympia, then, is a town with a tether, a fluid pulse, a mythology open to interpretation. However you slice it, it’s a place teeming with ghosts, even if your ghost is just the shadow of who you were earlier this morning. 

The Olympia three-piece Broken Water— a sometimes noisy, sometimes droning, often pretty and subtly poppy band—is very much a product of its hometown. Shape-shifting over the course of EPs, singles, and full-length albums released consistently since 2009, the band has managed the rare feat of evolution in the service of a signature sound, wild experimentation that ultimately works as a harness, locking down the music’s unique and idiosyncratic internal logic. 

Broken Water began when Kanako Pooknyw started hanging out at the house Jon Hanna shared with one of her friends. Hanna was a reclusive sort—the type of guy who had a secret solo career lodged deep inside an old laptop. Pooknyw disarmed the socially anxious Hanna over months of shared cigarettes and stoned banter. (She often began their talks with the same questions each time, and would forget his answers by the next time she visited.) The two struck up a friendship, and soon after joined up with bass player Dillan Norton to form the band Sisters, with Hanna on guitar and Pooknyw on drums. Sisters disbanded and though Pooknyw was still learning her instrument—dropped sticks were common and she often missed the drum heads completely—Hanna was impressed with her energy, determination, willingness to be weird, and, ultimately, the refined technique she arrived at after a time, a unique approach to structure and timing that takes many of Broken Waters’ tracks in surprising directions. This was an instinctual nod from a long-time local to the grungy, off-center, not-too-pop pop music prolific in the region since the early nineties—The Melvins, KARP, Unwound, lesser-known bands like Mukilteo Fairies...they're in the water, to borrow a phrase, and hard to ignore. 

Such effects are often driven by a band’s guitarist, but Broken Water’s rhythm section—rounded out by the addition of Pooknyw’s good friend, the understated but amply talented bassist Abigail Ingram no mere backdrop for Hanna’s loud, impeccably distorted and swirling sound. Every member of Broken Water take turns contributing lead vocals— Pooknyw and Ingram balance things out with a mix of Mazzy Star-like precision and eerie, haunting melodies that can draw a jagged line back to My Bloody Valentine, Cocteau Twins, or even the springy, deadpan vocals of Black Tambourine. Add to this the way each instrument plays both for and against the others, and Broken Water creates an energetic crescendo; a controlled and restless sound, one that is ambient and ethereal without denying itself the messy joy of punk rock; a loud band, with seeds of aggression, but one that doesn't mask melody for the conceit of a sonic assault. 

